thank you for joining us it's 18 GMT 6
p.m in Gaza in the coming hours a deeply
divided Israeli War cabinet will discuss
the latest proposal to end the war on
Gaza a plan the US president has said
was proposed by Israel prime minister
beniman neto's farri right ministers
have threatened to bring down the
government if he agrees to the deal in
Cairo meanwhile Egypt has told Israel
that it must withdraw from the Rafa
Crossing for it to operate again
according to Egyptian media Israel took
control of the Palestinian side of the
Border several weeks ago here's why
reopening that Crossing is so important
no life-saving Aid has entered through
the Border in weeks famine is taking
hold and life-saving medical and food
supplies are running low hundreds of
trucks are stuck on the Egyptian side of
the Rafa Crossing and the food they are
carrying is rotting in the summer heat
now let's find out what's happening with
the Rafa Crossing which has been shut as
we've been reporting Sarah hyad joins us
now live from Aman Jordan she's
reporting from Aman because Israel as
you know has banned Al jazer from
reporting from within Israel so these
talks Sarah in Egypt about reopening
this vital Crossing Rafa the meeting I
understand has now ended what's come out
of
it that's right uh Egyptian local uh
media source which has very close
connections uh with the Egyptian
authorities is reporting uh that Egypt
has said that it won't uh be opening the
Rafa Crossing as long as Israel remains
there it says that it must completely uh
withdraw from that Philadelphia uh
Corridor uh and return Palestinians to
be able to rule that side of uh the
Border let me just give you a quick uh
description of what the Philadelphia
Crossing Corridor rather is it's 14 kilm
long it's known as a buffer zone between
Egypt and the Gaza Strip the Egyptians
on one side and the Palestinians Manning
it on the other uh side it was part of a
Camp David agreement back in the
1970s and then in 2005 it was
established that that was a completely
demilitarized zone now when Israel
decided to start its offensive in Rafa a
few weeks ago it took over that Corridor
completely probably about a week ago
they said that they had full operational
control of it they've gotten rid of uh
Hamas in that area and this is the
problem that the Egyptians have not only
that it was only under the convi under
the US convincing the Egyptians to allow
Aid uh to come across otherwise those
Aid trucks had been stuck at that border
for a very uh long time but this is
Egypt showing that it's not happy about
this situation at all so no change in
the status of the Raffa crossing the
border will remain closed Sarah another
meeting that's happening today is that
of the Israeli cabinet divisions among
the war cabinet members about the way
forward and how they respond to the
latest ceasefire proposal what can we
expect from this meeting
Sarah that's right Folly uh Sundays
you'll usually have a war cabinet
meeting that's nothing uh unique but
what makes it different today is that
they will clearly be discussing uh this
proposed plan that the US uh
Administration including the president
himself put forward uh just a couple of
days ago well before this meeting you've
had the defense minister you avalant
saying they're already uh discussing
getting rid of like who is the next
person that's going to uh govern uh the
Gaza Strip so they're already said that
they're looking into that but also
adding that they will not end the
fighting until they get rid of hamas's
capabilities fully not just in terms of
arms or military wise but also in terms
of not being able to govern the Gaza
Strip any longer but the problem that
has been uh faced here is that some of
those in the war cabinet have had a
major issue Benny gance for example
giving a deadline of June the 8 saying
to Netanyahu you need to find out what
your next plan is you need to share this
plan we have to know what we're doing
next and if you don't we will uh pull
out of this government and then you also
have people like itamar benav that's the
national security minister absolutely
Furious yesterday tweeting as soon as he
can about uh this latest deal saying
that it is an absolute noo he's
absolutely Furious and has threatened
him and bezal smrc they did this around
the same time probably in coordination
for that both their parties to pull out
of this government why does that matter
because if this government is dissolved
this will be problematic for prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu who's
holding on to that power as much as he
can and families of those captives are
accusing him of putting his political
interests first Sarah thank you very
much Sarah hrat live there in a man
Jordan uh because uh again the Israeli
government has banned Al jaer from
reporting from inside Israel Let's cross
over to Washington DC now and shab banzi
uh sheab what's the latest response from
the Americans to the the ceasefire
proposal they insist that this was an
Israeli
plan well I think that was always part
of the you know the Diplomatic dance
that we get in these negotiations
clearly this was the result of the
negotiations of the CIA director from
from the USA Egypt Kat Israel Hamas and
we were told by a senior Administration
official on Friday that this is
basically the same plan that was on
offer a few weeks ago which Hamas had
accepted and which at the last minute
Israel reneged upon and at the time it
really seemed like both Israel and
frankly the White House had had left
Bill Burns their own CIA director out to
dry although the Egyptians were were
blamed and so on and now this time the
White House has put its foot down we
need agreement on this deal we were told
that there are a few modifications in
the deal so whether that now means that
this is an Israeli proposal maybe that's
what they're they're trying to wiggle
through uh but it was always a phase
deal and so Biden made a speech but they
never published what the deal was this
four and a half page document so there
was some confusion but only the first
phase has really been agreed upon the
the rest of it hasn't been agreed upon
which is why what Netanyahu says and
what Biden says can seem like they're
Divergent even as theoretically they're
both agreeing on the deal but this is
how John Kirby the National Security
spokes to clear it all up on the Sunday
talk
shows well it is an Israeli proposal one
that they arrived at after uh intense
diplomacy with our own National Security
team and over at the state department in
what it is a phased approach George so
where we are right now is that proposal
an Israeli proposal has been given to
Hamas it was done on Thursday night hour
time we're waiting for an official
response from Hamas we would note that
publicly Hamas officials came out and
welcomed this proposal and so what would
we hope would happen is they would agree
to start phase one as soon as
possible so uh I in the end though what
we are seeing now is the White House is
putting its foot down all this stuff
about hamas's future where there seems
to be Divergent noises from Netanyahu
are one thing but in the end this is all
about what Biden needs right now he
needs sometime in the near future some
kind of temporary pause that is what the
Israelis have agreed to a six- week
pause which will then be rolled over as
negotiations continue into for for
example the future of Hamas so that's
what they're pushing for that's been
agreed upon but that's why you can still
there's still room for that debate about
future phase two phase three who knows
about phase two phase three Biden may
not even be in office but all that White
House is concerned about is that phase
one that six week temporary pause that
can be renewed now meanwhile Netanyahu
shihab has been invited to speak to the
US Congress but it seems that in
Washington not everyone is happy about
this Senator Bernie Sanders uh released
a statement saying Benjamin Netanyahu is
a war criminal he should not be invited
to address a joint meeting of Congress I
certainly will not attend we've heard
ever since the Republicans issued this
invitation to Netanyahu clearly in an
attempt to bring out the divisions in
the Democratic party that there was much
hand rigging and discomfort amongst the
amongst the Democrats should we attend
should we boycott but what we know
certainly in the Senate is that in the
end they all go get on board despite all
their expressions of discomfort about
the alleged genocide in in Gaza only two
Democrats and one independent voted
against the last the last Israeli arms
shipment in the Senate one independent
Bernie Sanders and then two Democrats so
in the end they they're very likely to
to ATT 10 what we where we might see
more discontent being expressed maybe
with boycots is in the house where 37
Democrats voted against the latest Aid
package and are indeed very vocal like
Rashida Talib for example Palestinian
American herself so I think there we
might see we might see some more uh some
more boycotting but in the end though
Congress they talk a good talk but they
all end up Turing the line all right
chab thank you for that chab ranzi live
there in Washington
DC make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from aler